All right, so moving on now, let's
look at creating class bodies for
enum constants, but before we do
that, I want to discuss what an
enum constant with a class body is.
So, in a previous video in this
section of the course, I walked
through and discussed examples
of a particular kind of inner
class called an anonymous class.
So as it turns out, the optional
class body of an enum constant
implicitly defines an anonymous
class declaration that extends the
immediately enclosing enum type.
For example, the implicit code
creation for the declaration
of MONDAY might look something
like this code example.
public static final WeekDay MONDAY
equals, we've got new WeekDay and
in parentheses some arguments for
the constructor, but the important
thing there is the semicolon and
the code from enum constant body
goes there, then we've got a
right curly brace and a semicolon.
So that means that the rules
for an anonymous class are
essentially rules for the enum
constant body block in effect.
Namely, the body of an enum constant
cannot contain any constructors.
Secondly, methods in the enum
constant body can be invoked
outside the enclosing enum type,
but only if they override accessible
methods in the enclosing enum type
by one of the following rules:
Firstly, a method can optionally
override a concrete method in the
enum type so that not all constants
need to override a method.
And secondly, a method that is
abstract defined in the enum type must
be overridden by every enum constant.
So, hopefully, that's
not too confusing.
Let's look at that in code.
So let's bring it back to
our Fundamentals project.
All right, so we're going to call this
class or this enum rather PinochleMeld
P-I-N-O-C-H-L-E Meld
and it was an enum.
All right, so I'm going
to paste in this code.
Now the code I've pasted in emulates
a scorecard for a Pinochle card game.
So firstly, you can see that it
contains a Pinochle Meld enum.
Now, this is an enum with constants
that represents some of the card
combinations that contribute
to making points in the game.
I've only shown a few of
the valid combinations.
Now each enum constant has a
score argument supported by a
constructor in the enum body.
You can see the constructor
there on line 23, and that
sets a field named score.
The field there on line 21.
Now, one enum constant marriage has
a class body which contains a method
that overrides the adjust score method
defined in the closing enum body.
So, we've obviously got adjustScore
down there in line 29, and you
can see that the marriage enum is
overriding that method on line 13.
Now, there are times when the
score might be higher for a
particular card combination if
the suit is trump, for example.
See that on line 18.
The adjustScore method will allow
the Pinochle game to account
for differences in scores.
And as I mentioned, also the inner
body declared the concrete method
adjustScore there on line 29, but so
looking at our Pinochle game class
starting on line 34, you can see that
that contains the main method and
that main method creates an array of
Pinochle Meld, see that on line 41,
and that represents a hand of cards.
And looking on… scrolling on down,
you can see there that's adding up
the score based on the combinations
defined in a hand of cards, and
in addition, you can see that it's
calling the adjustScore method for
each Pinochle Meld in the hand.
All right, so if you run this code,
we can see the output shown.
Well, so let's now add
an abstract method to the enum body,
which would print out the
description of the card combinations.
So, starting by scrolling down, after
our adjustScore concrete method and
paste that in, this is the method
now we've defined this abstract that
each constant will need to override.
And by doing that, you can see
we've got errors up here now.
The compilation error is coming
up on each line where there's
an enum constant declared.
Now, this is because each
enum constant must implement
the abstract method that
we've just added on line 34.
So, what I'm going to do is basically
replace the entire, basically
entire class body for these three.
So, I'm just going to come down here
down to the end and place that code,
and you can see what I've done there.
So, you can see, we're correctly
now overriding the abstract method.
You can see the first example there
on line 12 for Pinochle, we're
overriding the abstract method.
And scrolling on down for marriage,
you can see we're also overriding
the describe method there and
likewise, for the nine of trump.
So, now that we've done that, let's
call the describe method from the main
method and back to our code down here.
I'm basically going to change
this system.out.println, what
we'll do instead, we're going to
call method on the enum constant.
Effectively, we're going
to do points.describe.
That's obviously going to
change the output, so let's
run this and see what happens.
And we can see the revised output now.
So, clearly, that's working.
All right, so let's make one
more change to this class.
What I’m going to do is go back
up to our definitions again, I'm
going to make a change just for this
Pinochle enum constant, Pinochle.
So, I'm going to just rub
that and replace that
the code you can see on screen now.
You can see there's another method
there, printSomeAdditionalInfo,
so let's go down and
try and use that method.
We're going right down to the main
method and we'll do this just before
the closing right curly brace from the
for statement or the for loop rather.
And you can see the code doesn't
compile, so that confirms that
although it's permissible to declare
public methods in an enum constant
that we're doing there up here on line
17, the only way you can use that code
from outside of the enum is to declare
an accessible method in the enum body,
and obviously we didn't do that for
the printSomeAdditionalInfo method.
So, as you can hopefully see now with
this video, you can see that an enum
can get as complicated as any class.
A few things to remember
for the exam about enums.
The enum constants list must precede
any code in the enum body and if
there is an enum body, the constants
list must end in a semicolon.
Secondly, an abstract method
defined in the enum body must be
implemented by every enum constant.
Third, enum constants cannot define
constructors in their own class body
but can use constructors
from the enum class body.
Remember that enum constants
can use different constructors.
Also, remember that any method
which will be invoked using the enum
constant which is declared in the
enum constant body must override
accessible methods in the enum body.
All right, lastly, other methods
can be declared in the enum constant
body for use within the anonymous
class of the constant, but will not
be accessible outside of the enum.
All right, so we've covered
quite a lot in the videos in
this section of the course.
Let's move on to the next video.
We're going to start discussing some
out of ordinary items that you need
to know which may crop up in the exam.
See you in the next video.